First draft of reference docs on durable state (#30387)
akka/akka: akka-docs/src/main/paradox/typed/persistence-durable-state.md

---
project.description: Durable State with Akka Persistence enables actors to persist its state for recovery on failure or when migrated within a cluster.
---

> # Durable State

Reviewer: Just like `typed/persistence.md#tagging` there should be a section about tagging durable state changes.

Author: Yes, it's still in the works ..

Author: Now added ..

---

> project.description: Durable State with Akka Persistence enables actors to persist your state for recovery on failure or when migrated within a cluster.

Author: changed ..

---
# Durable State

> You are viewing the documentation for the new actor APIs, to view the Akka Classic documentation, see @ref:[Classic Akka Persistence](../persistence.md).

Author: done ..

event journal and snapshot store.

@ref:[Cluster Sharding](cluster-sharding.md) is typically used together with `DurableStateBehavior` to ensure
that there is only one active entity for each `PersistenceId` (`entityId`).

The `entityId` in Cluster Sharding is the business domain identifier of the entity. The `entityId` might not
be unique enough to be used as the `PersistenceId` by itself. For example two different types of
entities may have the same `entityId`. To create a unique `PersistenceId` the `entityId` should be prefixed
with a stable name of the entity type, which typically is the same as the `EntityTypeKey.name` that
is used in Cluster Sharding. There are @scala[`PersistenceId.apply`]@java[`PersistenceId.of`] factory methods
to help with constructing such `PersistenceId` from an `entityTypeHint` and `entityId`.

The default separator when concatenating the `entityTypeHint` and `entityId` is `|`, but a custom separator
is supported.

@@@ note

The `|` separator is also used in Lagom's `scaladsl.PersistentEntity` but no separator is used
in Lagom's `javadsl.PersistentEntity`. For compatibility with Lagom's `javadsl.PersistentEntity`
you should use `""` as the separator.

> @@@

Reviewer 2: We don't need this notice since there is no durable state actors in Lagom. 

This notice is useful only for users migrating from Lagom to Akka Persistence Typed (EventSourcedBehavior).

Author: removed

The @ref:[Persistence example in the Cluster Sharding documentation](cluster-sharding.md#persistence-example)
illustrates how to construct the `PersistenceId` from the `entityTypeKey` and `entityId` provided by the
`EntityContext`.

A custom identifier can be created with `PersistenceId.ofUniqueId`.  

### Command handler

The command handler is a function with 2 parameters, the current `State` and the incoming `Command`.

A command handler returns an `Effect` directive that defines what event or events, if any, to persist. 
Effects are created using @java[a factory that is returned via the `Effect()` method] @scala[the `Effect` factory].

The two most commonly used effects are: 

* `persist` will persist one single event or several events atomically, i.e. all events
  are stored or none of them are stored if there is an error

> * `none` no events are to be persisted, for example a read-only command

Reviewer 2: I know, it draft...

We are still mention events in these sentences.

Author: changed ..

More effects are explained in @ref:[Effects and Side Effects](#effects-and-side-effects).

> In addition to returning the primary `Effect` for the command `EventSourcedBehavior`s can also 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to returning the primary `Effect` for the command `DurableStateBehavior`s can also 
```

Author: changed ..

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #command-handler }

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #command-handler }

@scala[These are used to create a `DurableStateBehavior`:]
@java[These are defined in an `DurableStateBehavior`:]

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #behavior }

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #behavior }

## Effects and Side Effects

A command handler returns an `Effect` directive that defines what event or events, if any, to persist. 
Effects are created using @java[a factory that is returned via the `Effect()` method] @scala[the `Effect` factory]
and can be one of: 

> * `persist` will persist one single event or several events atomically, i.e. all events

Reviewer 2: Persist state, not events.

Author: changed ..

Most of the time this will be done with the `thenRun` method on the `Effect` above. You can factor out
common side effects into functions and reuse for several commands. For example:

Scala
:  @@snip [PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/akka/persistence/typed/scaladsl/PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.scala) { #commonChainedEffects }

Java
:  @@snip [PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/akka/persistence/typed/javadsl/PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.java) { #commonChainedEffects }

### Side effects ordering and guarantees

Any side effects are executed on an at-most-once basis and will not be executed if the persist fails.

Side effects are not run when the actor is restarted or started again after being stopped.

The side effects are executed sequentially, it is not possible to execute side effects in parallel, unless they
call out to something that is running concurrently (for example sending a message to another actor).

It's possible to execute a side effect before persisting the event, but that can result in that the

> side effect is performed but the event is not stored if the persist fails.

Reviewer 2: Same: state, not event

Author: changed ..

---
project.description: Durable State with Akka Persistence enables actors to persist its state for recovery on failure or when migrated within a cluster.
---
# Durable State

## Module info

To use Akka Persistence, add the module to your project:

@@dependency[sbt,Maven,Gradle] {
  bomGroup=com.typesafe.akka bomArtifact=akka-bom_$scala.binary.version$ bomVersionSymbols=AkkaVersion
  symbol1=AkkaVersion
  value1="$akka.version$"
  group=com.typesafe.akka
  artifact=akka-persistence-typed_$scala.binary.version$
  version=AkkaVersion
  group2=com.typesafe.akka
  artifact2=akka-persistence-testkit_$scala.binary.version$
  version2=AkkaVersion
  scope2=test
}

> You also have to select journal plugin and optionally snapshot store plugin, see 

Reviewer: refers to journal and snapshots, should only refer to durable state store

Author: done ..

@ref:[Persistence Plugins](../persistence-plugins.md).

@@project-info{ projectId="akka-persistence-typed" }

## Introduction

> This model of Akka Persistence enables a stateful actor / entity to store the full state afer processing each command instead of using event sourcing. This reduces the conceptual complexity and can be a handy tool for simple use cases. Very much like a CRUD based operation, the API is conceptually simple - a function from current state and incoming command to the next state which replaces the current state in the database. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This model of Akka Persistence enables a stateful actor / entity to store the full state after processing each command instead of using event sourcing. This reduces the conceptual complexity and can be a handy tool for simple use cases. Very much like a CRUD based operation, the API is conceptually simple - a function from current state and incoming command to the next state which replaces the current state in the database. 
```

Author: done ..

```
(State, Command) => State
```

> The current state is always stored in the database. Akka Persistence would read that state and store it in memory. After processing of the command is finished, the new state will be stored in the database. The processing of the next command will not start until the state has been successfully stored in the database.

Reviewer: Maybe make it clear that the storage replaces with every change (no audit or history kept)

Author: done ..

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #structure }

The first important thing to notice is the `Behavior` of a persistent actor is typed to the type of the `Command`
because this is the type of message a persistent actor should receive. In Akka this is now enforced by the type system.

The components that make up a `DurableStateBehavior` are:

* `persistenceId` is the stable unique identifier for the persistent actor.
* `emptyState` defines the `State` when the entity is first created e.g. a Counter would start with 0 as state.
* `commandHandler` defines how to handle commands and map to appropriate effects e.g. persisting state and replying to actors.

Next we'll discuss each of these in detail.

### PersistenceId

The @apidoc[akka.persistence.typed.PersistenceId] is the stable unique identifier for the persistent actor in the backend
durabe state store.

@ref:[Cluster Sharding](cluster-sharding.md) is typically used together with `DurableStateBehavior` to ensure

> that there is only one active entity for each `PersistenceId` (`entityId`).

Reviewer: The `entityId` is not introduced, so it's not clear what it means for a new reader in this sentence?

Author: rephrased

> The `entityId` in Cluster Sharding is the business domain identifier of the entity. The `entityId` might not

Reviewer: 'business domain identifier' does not say much, and in this case I guess it is more relevant that this entityId is unique across the cluster?

Author: rephrased

be unique enough to be used as the `PersistenceId` by itself. For example two different types of
entities may have the same `entityId`. To create a unique `PersistenceId` the `entityId` should be prefixed
with a stable name of the entity type, which typically is the same as the `EntityTypeKey.name` that
is used in Cluster Sharding. There are @scala[`PersistenceId.apply`]@java[`PersistenceId.of`] factory methods

> to help with constructing such `PersistenceId` from an `entityTypeHint` and `entityId`.

Reviewer: I feel this part on entityId and persistenceId can use some work, or can refer to cluster sharding conceptual docs.

Reviewer: Like for instance you have to assume entityTypeHint has something to do with the entity type, or read up on it somewhere else. Do we have other docs that explain this conceptually so we can refer to it?

Author: It does refer to the cluster sharding document just above this part

The default separator when concatenating the `entityTypeHint` and `entityId` is `|`, but a custom separator
is supported.

> The @ref:[Persistence example in the Cluster Sharding documentation](cluster-sharding.md#persistence-example)

Reviewer: Maybe this can be pulled more to the beginning of this section. So we can just state, in cluster sharding, there are some more details about uniqueness, please see ...

Author: didn't want to disturb the structure as it's the same in the other (event sourcing) document.

illustrates how to construct the `PersistenceId` from the `entityTypeKey` and `entityId` provided by the
`EntityContext`.

> A custom identifier can be created with `PersistenceId.ofUniqueId`.  

Reviewer: Why do I need to know this here?

Author: This is from the event sourcing document .. remove ?

### Command handler

The command handler is a function with 2 parameters, the current `State` and the incoming `Command`.

A command handler returns an `Effect` directive that defines what state, if any, to persist. 
Effects are created using @java[a factory that is returned via the `Effect()` method] @scala[the `Effect` factory].

The two most commonly used effects are: 

* `persist` will persist state atomically, i.e. all state will be stored or none of them are stored if there is an error
* `none` no state to be persisted, for example a read-only command

> More effects are explained in @ref:[Effects and Side Effects](#effects-and-side-effects).

Reviewer: Maybe nice before this just to see an example of how this is used.

Author: again, for uniformity with the other document I kept it this way ..

Author: Thought of adding an example here. But found that the running example is just a few lines away - hence no point repeating it.

> In addition to returning the primary `Effect` for the command `DurableStateBehavior`s can also 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to returning the primary `Effect` for the command, `DurableStateBehavior`s can also 
```

Author: done ..

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #command-handler }

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #command-handler }

@scala[These are used to create a `DurableStateBehavior`:]
@java[These are defined in an `DurableStateBehavior`:]

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #behavior }

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #behavior }

## Effects and Side Effects

A command handler returns an `Effect` directive that defines what state, if any, to persist. 
Effects are created using @java[a factory that is returned via the `Effect()` method] @scala[the `Effect` factory]
and can be one of: 

> * `persist` will persist state atomically, i.e. all states are stored or none of them are stored if there is an error

Reviewer: Not sure about all states, is it not the case that you always persist one state (with durable state)?

Author: corrected ..

* `stop` stop this actor
* `stash` the current command is stashed
* `unstashAll` process the commands that were stashed with @scala[`Effect.stash`]@java[`Effect().stash`]
* `reply` send a reply message to the given `ActorRef`

Note that only one of those can be chosen per incoming command. It is not possible to both persist and say none/unhandled.

In addition to returning the primary `Effect` for the command `DurableStateBehavior`s can also 
chain side effects that are to be performed after successful persist which is achieved with the `thenRun`
function that runs the callback passed to it e.g @scala[`Effect.persist(..).thenRun`]@java[`Effect().persist(..).thenRun`]. 

All `thenRun` registered callbacks are executed sequentially after successful execution of the persist statement
(or immediately, in case of `none` and `unhandled`).

In addition to `thenRun` the following actions can also be performed after successful persist:

* `thenStop` the actor will be stopped
* `thenUnstashAll` process the commands that were stashed with @scala[`Effect.stash`]@java[`Effect().stash`]
* `thenReply` send a reply message to the given `ActorRef`

> In the example below, we use a different constructor of `DurableStateBehavior.withEnforcedReplies`, which creates

Reviewer: What does it mean that the reply is not forgotten? why would a reply be forgotten without this? (trying to read this as a new reader, it's not very clear to me, it assumes some knowledge of what can go wrong if I don't use it.)

Reviewer: Oh, maybe this means that you could forget to define a reply, as the person writing this, and by using this constructor, you can't define a command that does not have a reply. 

You could misread this as if Akka forgets replies. So maybe make it clear that this is related to the case where you as a developer want to ensure this.

Author: refactored this part quite a bit ..

a `Behavior` for a persistent actor that ensures that replies to commands are not forgotten. Hence it will be
a compilation error if the returned effect isn't a `ReplyEffect`.

Instead of `Increment` we will have a new command `IncrementWithConfirmation` that, along with persistence will also
send an acknowledgement as a reply to the `ActorRef` passed in the command. 

Example of effects and side-effects:

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #effects }

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #effects }

> Most of the time this will be done with the `thenRun` method on the `Effect` above. You can factor out

Reviewer: Not very clear what this refers to, better to repeat something like 'It is useful to define side effects with `thenRun` ...'

Author: rephrased

common side effects into functions and reuse for several commands. For example:

Scala
:  @@snip [PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/akka/persistence/typed/scaladsl/PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.scala) { #commonChainedEffects }

Java
:  @@snip [PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/akka/persistence/typed/javadsl/PersistentActorCompileOnlyTest.java) { #commonChainedEffects }

### Side effects ordering and guarantees

Any side effects are executed on an at-most-once basis and will not be executed if the persist fails.

Side effects are not run when the actor is restarted or started again after being stopped.

The side effects are executed sequentially, it is not possible to execute side effects in parallel, unless they
call out to something that is running concurrently (for example sending a message to another actor).

> It's possible to execute a side effect before persisting the state, but that can result in that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to execute a side effect before persisting the state, but that can cause that the
```

Author: done ..

> side effect is performed but the state is not stored if the persist fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
side effect is performed but that the state is not stored, if the persist fails.
```

Author: done ..

## Cluster Sharding and DurableStateBehavior

> In a use case where the number of persistent actors needed is higher than what would fit in the memory of one node or

Reviewer: ```suggestion

@ref:[Cluster Sharding](cluster-sharding.md) is an excellent fit to spread persistent actors over a
cluster. It makes it possible to have more persistent actors exist in the cluster than what would fit in the memory of one node. 
```

Author: done ..

> where resilience is important so that if a node crashes the persistent actors are quickly started on a new node and can

Reviewer: Cluster sharding improves the resilience of the cluster, if a node crashes the persistent actors are quickly started on a new node and can resume operations.

Author: done ..

resume operations @ref:[Cluster Sharding](cluster-sharding.md) is an excellent fit to spread persistent actors over a

> cluster and address them by id.

Reviewer: Would be great if this sentence can be redone in a few sentences.

Reviewer: (I added a suggestion)

Author: done ..

> The `DurableStateBehavior` can then be run as with any plain actor as described in @ref:[actors documentation](actors.md),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DurableStateBehavior` can then be run as any plain actor as described in @ref:[actors documentation](actors.md),
```

Author: done ..

> but since Akka Persistence is based on the single-writer principle the persistent actors are typically used together

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but since Akka Persistence is based on the single-writer principle, the persistent actors are typically used together
```

Author: done ..

> with Cluster Sharding. For a particular `persistenceId` only one persistent actor instance should be active at one time.

Reviewer: mixing entity with actor, though entity is not explained. Maybe just say "ensures that there is only one active actor instance for each id' ?

Author: done ..

Cluster Sharding ensures that there is only one active entity for each id. 

## Accessing the ActorContext

If the @apidoc[DurableStateBehavior] needs to use the @apidoc[typed.*.ActorContext], for example to spawn child actors, it can be obtained by

> wrapping construction with `Behaviors.setup`:

Reviewer: `PersistenceId.ofUniqueId("myPersistenceId")` is not clear, what this does. I guess it expresses that you know, as a user that this is unique, it does not automatically make it unique?

Author: yeah .. it assumes that the id will be unique ..

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #actor-context }

Java
:  @@snip [BasicPersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #actor-context }

## Changing Behavior

> After processing a message, actors are able to return the `Behavior` that is used

Reviewer: Maybe simpler to just state something like : Unlike regular actors, persistent actors cannot return a different behavior for a next message.

Reviewer: I would prefer it if this is written, focused on how it should be done, and then a note saying "while reading this you might have wondered why we did not use ..., this is not allowed because' or something and explaining there why the behavior changing cannot work with akka persistence.

Author: refactored ..

for the next message.

As you can see in the above examples this is not supported by persistent actors. Instead, the state is
persisted as an `Effect` by the `commandHandler`. 

The reason a new behavior can't be returned is that behavior is part of the actor's
state and must also carefully be reconstructed during recovery from the persisted state. This would imply
that the state needs to be encoded such that the behavior can also be restored from it. 

> That would be very prone to mistakes and thus not allowed in Akka Persistence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That would be very prone to mistakes , which is why it is not allowed in Akka Persistence.
```

Author: done ..

The state is captured by:

Scala
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala) { #state }

Java
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.java) { #state }

The commands, of which only a subset are valid depending on the state:

Scala
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala) { #commands }

Java
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.java) { #commands }

@java[The command handler to process each command is decided by the state class (or state predicate) that is
given to the `forStateType` of the `CommandHandlerBuilder` and the match cases in the builders.]
@scala[The command handler to process each command is decided by first looking at the state and then the command.
It typically becomes two levels of pattern matching, first on the state and then on the command.]

> Delegating to methods is a good practice because the one-line cases give a nice overview of the message dispatch.

Reviewer: Add here some reference to `addPost` and other methods to be clear

Author: done ..

Scala
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala) { #command-handler }

Java
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.java) { #command-handler }

And finally the behavior is created @scala[from the `DurableStateBehavior.apply`]:

Scala
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala) { #behavior }

Java
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.java) { #behavior }

> This can be taken one or two steps further by defining the command handlers in the state class as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be refactored one or two steps further by defining the command handlers in the state class as
```

Author: done ..

@java[`StatusReply<ReplyType>`] can be used. If the successful reply does not contain a value but is more of an acknowledgement
a pre defined @scala[`StatusReply.Ack`]@java[`StatusReply.ack()`] of type @scala[`StatusReply[Done]`]@java[`StatusReply<Done>`]
can be used.

After validation errors or after persisting events, using a `thenRun` side effect, the reply message can
be sent to the `ActorRef`.

Scala
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala) { #reply-command }

Java
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.java) { #reply-command }

Scala
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.scala) { #reply }

Java
:  @@snip [BlogPostEntityDurableState.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/BlogPostEntityDurableState.java) { #reply }

Since this is such a common pattern there is a reply effect for this purpose. It has the nice property that

> it can be used to enforce that replies are not forgotten when implementing the `DurableStateBehavior`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it can be used to enforce that you do not forget to specify replies when implementing the `DurableStateBehavior`.
```

Author: done ..

The `ReplyEffect` is created with @scala[`Effect.reply`]@java[`Effect().reply`], @scala[`Effect.noReply`]@java[`Effect().noReply`],
@scala[`Effect.thenReply`]@java[`Effect().thenReply`], or @scala[`Effect.thenNoReply`]@java[`Effect().thenNoReply`].

@java[Note that command handlers are defined with `newCommandHandlerWithReplyBuilder` when using
`EventSourcedBehaviorWithEnforcedReplies`, as opposed to newCommandHandlerBuilder when using `EventSourcedBehavior`.]

Scala
:  @@snip [AccountExampleWithCommandHandlersInDurableState.scala](/akka-cluster-sharding-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/cluster/sharding/typed/AccountExampleWithCommandHandlersInDurableState.scala) { #reply }

Java
:  @@snip [AccountExampleWithNullDurableState.java](/akka-cluster-sharding-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/cluster/sharding/typed/AccountExampleWithNullDurableState.java) { #reply }

These effects will send the reply message even when @scala[`DurableStateBehavior.withEnforcedReplies`]@java[`DurableStateBehaviorWithEnforcedReplies`]
is not used, but then there will be no compilation errors if the reply decision is left out.

> Note that the `noReply` is a way of making conscious decision that a reply shouldn't be sent for a specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `noReply` is a way of making a conscious decision that a reply shouldn't be sent for a specific
```

Author: done ..

> command or the reply will be sent later, perhaps after some asynchronous interaction with other actors or services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command or that a reply will be sent later, perhaps after some asynchronous interaction with other actors or services.
```

Author: done ..

## Serialization

The same @ref:[serialization](../serialization.md) mechanism as for actor messages is also used for persistent actors.

You need to enable @ref:[serialization](../serialization.md) for your commands (messages) and state.
@ref:[Serialization with Jackson](../serialization-jackson.md) is a good choice in many cases and our
recommendation if you don't have other preference.

## Tagging

> Persistence allows you to use tags in persistence query.

Reviewer: This needs a little more explanation IMHO

Reviewer: The java example seems to point to something else.

Author: added some explanation explaining tags. The Java example points to the method which overrides `def tag: String` in the javadsl .. Now added the class definition as well, so that we know which class are we talking about

Scala
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/scala/docs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorCompileOnly.scala) { #tagging }

Java
:  @@snip [DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java](/akka-persistence-typed/src/test/java/jdocs/akka/persistence/typed/DurableStatePersistentBehaviorTest.java) { #tagging }

## Wrapping DurableStateBehavior

> When creating an `DurableStateBehavior`, it is possible to wrap `DurableStateBehavior` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a `DurableStateBehavior`, it is possible to wrap `DurableStateBehavior` in
```

Author: done ..
